docs/reference/indices/get-index.asciidoc, before:

[[indices-get-index]]
=== Get index API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get index</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns information about one or more indexes.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

[[get-index-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /<index>`


[[get-index-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<index>`::
+
--
(Required, string) Comma-separated list or wildcard expression of index names
used to limit the request.

Use a value of `_all` to retrieve information for all indices in the cluster.
--


[[get-index-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=flat-settings]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=include-defaults]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=local]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]

Commit message:

7.x rest spec and create_index consuming type

docs/reference/indices/get-index.asciidoc, after:

[[indices-get-index]]
=== Get index API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get index</titleabbrev>
++++

Returns information about one or more indexes.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

NOTE: Before 7.0.0, the 'mappings' definition used to include a type name. Although mappings
in responses no longer contain a type name by default, you can still request the old format
through the parameter include_type_name. For more details, please see <<removal-of-types>>.


[[get-index-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /<index>`


[[get-index-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<index>`::
+
--
(Required, string) Comma-separated list or wildcard expression of index names
used to limit the request.

Use a value of `_all` to retrieve information for all indices in the cluster.
--


[[get-index-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=flat-settings]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=include-defaults]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=include-type-name]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=local]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]
