docs/reference/indices/get-mapping.asciidoc, before:

[[indices-get-mapping]]
=== Get mapping API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get mapping</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves <<mapping,mapping definitions>> for indices in a cluster.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter/_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

[[get-mapping-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_mapping`

`GET /<index>/_mapping`


[[get-mapping-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]


[[get-mapping-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=local]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]


[[get-mapping-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[[get-mapping-api-multi-ex]]
===== Multiple indices

The get mapping API can be used to get more than one index with a
single call. General usage of the API follows the following syntax:
`host:port/{index}/_mapping` where  `{index}` can accept a comma-separated
list of names. To get mappings for all indices you can use `_all` for `{index}`.
The following are some examples:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter,kimchy/_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]
// TEST[s/^/PUT kimchy\nPUT book\n/]

If you want to get mappings of all indices and types then the following
two examples are equivalent:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_all/_mapping

GET /_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

Commit message:

7.x rest spec and create_index consuming type

docs/reference/indices/get-mapping.asciidoc, after:

[[indices-get-mapping]]
=== Get mapping API
++++
<titleabbrev>Get mapping</titleabbrev>
++++

Retrieves <<mapping,mapping definitions>> for indices in a cluster.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter/_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

NOTE: Before 7.0.0, the 'mappings' definition used to include a type name. Although mappings
in responses no longer contain a type name by default, you can still request the old format
through the parameter `include_type_name`. For more details, please see <<removal-of-types>>.


[[get-mapping-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_mapping`

`GET /<index>/_mapping`


[[get-mapping-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]


[[get-mapping-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=include-type-name]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=local]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=master-timeout]


[[get-mapping-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[[get-mapping-api-multi-ex]]
===== Multiple indices

The get mapping API can be used to get more than one index with a
single call. General usage of the API follows the following syntax:
`host:port/{index}/_mapping` where  `{index}` can accept a comma-separated
list of names. To get mappings for all indices you can use `_all` for `{index}`.
The following are some examples:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /twitter,kimchy/_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]
// TEST[s/^/PUT kimchy\nPUT book\n/]

If you want to get mappings of all indices and types then the following
two examples are equivalent:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_all/_mapping

GET /_mapping
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]
