docs/reference/indices/put-mapping.asciidoc, before:

[[indices-put-mapping]]
=== Put mapping API
++++
<titleabbrev>Put mapping</titleabbrev>
++++

Adds new fields to an existing index or changes the search settings of existing
fields.

[source,console]
----
PUT /twitter/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "email": {
      "type": "keyword"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:twitter]

[[put-mapping-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT /<index>/_mapping`

`PUT /_mapping`


[[put-mapping-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]
+
To update the mapping of all indices, omit this parameter or use a value of
`_all`.


[[put-mapping-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]


[[put-mapping-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`properties`::
+
--
(Required, <<mapping,mapping object>>) Mapping for a field. For new
fields, this mapping can include:

* Field name
* <<field-datatypes,Field datatype>>
* <<mapping-params,Mapping parameters>>

For existing fields, see <<updating-field-mappings>>.
--


[[put-mapping-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[[put-field-mapping-api-basic-ex]]
===== Example with index setup

The put mapping API requires an existing index. The following
<<indices-create-index, create index>> API request creates the `publications`
index with no mapping.

[source,console]
----
PUT /publications
----

The following put mapping API request adds `title`, a new <<text,`text`>> field,
to the `publications` index.

[source,console]
----
PUT /publications/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "title":  { "type": "text"}
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

[[put-mapping-api-multi-ex]]
===== Multiple indices

The PUT mapping API can be applied to multiple indices with a single request.
For example, we can update the `twitter-1` and `twitter-2` mappings at the same time:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
# Create the two indices
PUT /twitter-1
PUT /twitter-2

# Update both mappings
PUT /twitter-1,twitter-2/_mapping <1>
{
  "properties": {
    "user_name": {
      "type": "text"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

<1> Note that the indices specified (`twitter-1,twitter-2`) follows <<multi-index,multiple index names>> and wildcard format.


[[add-new-field-to-object]]
===== Add new properties to an existing object field

You can use the put mapping API
to add new properties
to an existing <<object,`object`>> field.
To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `name` object field
and an inner `first` text field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "name": {
        "properties": {
          "first": {
            "type": "text"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API
to add a new inner `last` text field
to the `name` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "name": {
      "properties": {
        "last": {
          "type": "text"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "name" : {
          "properties" : {
            "first" : {
              "type" : "text"
            },
            "last" : {
              "type" : "text"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[add-multi-fields-existing-field-ex]]
===== Add multi-fields to an existing field

<<multi-fields,Multi-fields>>
let you index the same field
in different ways.
You can use the put mapping API
to update the `fields` mapping parameter
and enable multi-fields for an existing field.

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `city` <<text,text>> field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "city": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

While text fields work well for full-text search,
<<keyword,keyword>> fields are not analyzed
and may work better for sorting or aggregations.

Use the put mapping API
to enable a multi-field for the `city` field.
This request adds the `city.raw` keyword multi-field,
which can be used for sorting.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "city": {
      "type": "text",
      "fields": {
        "raw": {
          "type": "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "city" : {
          "type" : "text",
          "fields" : {
            "raw" : {
              "type" : "keyword"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[change-existing-mapping-parms]]
===== Change supported mapping parameters for an existing field

The documentation for each <<mapping-params,mapping parameter>>
indicates whether you can update it
for an existing field
using the put mapping API.
For example,
you can use the put mapping API
to update the <<ignore-above,`ignore_above`>> parameter.

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API to create an index
containing a `user_id` keyword field.
The `user_id` field
has an `ignore_above` parameter value
of `20`.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "keyword",
        "ignore_above": 20
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API
to change the `ignore_above` parameter value
to `100`.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "user_id": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "ignore_above": 100
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "user_id" : {
          "type" : "keyword",
          "ignore_above" : 100
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[updating-field-mappings]]
===== Change the mapping of an existing field

// tag::change-field-mapping[]
Except for supported <<mapping-params,mapping parameters>>,
you can't change the mapping or field type of an existing field.
Changing an existing field could invalidate data that's already indexed.

If you need to change the mapping of a field,
create a new index with the correct mapping
and <<docs-reindex,reindex>> your data into that index.
// end::change-field-mapping[]

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create the `users` index
with the `user_id` field
with the <<number,`long`>> field type.

[source,console]
----
PUT /users
{
  "mappings" : {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the <<docs-index_,index>> API
to index several documents
with `user_id` field values.

[source,console]
----
POST /users/_doc?refresh=wait_for
{
    "user_id" : 12345
}

POST /users/_doc?refresh=wait_for
{
    "user_id" : 12346
}
----
// TEST[continued]

To change the `user_id` field
to the <<keyword,`keyword`>> field type,
use the create index API
to create the `new_users` index with the correct mapping.

[source,console]
----
PUT /new_users
{
  "mappings" : {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<docs-reindex,reindex>> API
to copy documents from the `users` index
to the `new_users` index.

[source,console]
----
POST /_reindex
{
  "source": {
    "index": "users"
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "new_users"
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "took": 147,
  "timed_out": false,
  "total": 2,
  "updated": 0,
  "created": 2,
  "deleted": 0,
  "batches": 1,
  "version_conflicts": 0,
  "noops": 0,
  "retries": {
    "bulk": 0,
    "search": 0
  },
  "throttled_millis": 0,
  "requests_per_second": -1.0,
  "throttled_until_millis": 0,
  "failures" : [ ]
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 147/"took": "$body.took"/]


[[rename-existing-field]]
===== Rename a field

// tag::rename-field[]
Renaming a field would invalidate data already indexed under the old field name.
Instead, add an <<alias, `alias`>> field to create an alternate field name.
// end::rename-field[]

For example,
use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `user_identifier` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user_identifier": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API to add the `user_id` field alias
for the existing `user_identifier` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "user_id": {
      "type": "alias",
      "path": "user_identifier"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "user_id" : {
          "type" : "alias",
          "path" : "user_identifier"
        },
        "user_identifier" : {
          "type" : "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Commit message:

7.x rest spec and create_index consuming type

docs/reference/indices/put-mapping.asciidoc, after:

[[indices-put-mapping]]
=== Put mapping API
++++
<titleabbrev>Put mapping</titleabbrev>
++++

Adds new fields to an existing index or changes the search settings of existing
fields.

[source,console]
----
PUT /twitter/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "email": {
      "type": "keyword"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:twitter]

NOTE: Before 7.0.0, the 'mappings' definition used to include a type name.
Although specifying types in requests is now deprecated, a type can still be
provided if the request parameter `include_type_name` is set. For more details,
please see <<removal-of-types>>.


[[put-mapping-api-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`PUT /<index>/_mapping`

`PUT /_mapping`


[[put-mapping-api-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index]
+
To update the mapping of all indices, omit this parameter or use a value of
`_all`.


[[put-mapping-api-query-params]]
==== {api-query-parms-title}

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=allow-no-indices]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=expand-wildcards]
+
Defaults to `open`.

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=include-type-name]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=index-ignore-unavailable]

include::{docdir}/rest-api/common-parms.asciidoc[tag=timeoutparms]


[[put-mapping-api-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`properties`::
+
--
(Required, <<mapping,mapping object>>) Mapping for a field. For new
fields, this mapping can include:

* Field name
* <<field-datatypes,Field datatype>>
* <<mapping-params,Mapping parameters>>

For existing fields, see <<updating-field-mappings>>.
--


[[put-mapping-api-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}

[[put-field-mapping-api-basic-ex]]
===== Example with index setup

The put mapping API requires an existing index. The following
<<indices-create-index, create index>> API request creates the `publications`
index with no mapping.

[source,console]
----
PUT /publications
----

The following put mapping API request adds `title`, a new <<text,`text`>> field,
to the `publications` index.

[source,console]
----
PUT /publications/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "title":  { "type": "text"}
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

[[put-mapping-api-multi-ex]]
===== Multiple indices

The PUT mapping API can be applied to multiple indices with a single request.
For example, we can update the `twitter-1` and `twitter-2` mappings at the same time:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
# Create the two indices
PUT /twitter-1
PUT /twitter-2

# Update both mappings
PUT /twitter-1,twitter-2/_mapping <1>
{
  "properties": {
    "user_name": {
      "type": "text"
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[setup:twitter]

<1> Note that the indices specified (`twitter-1,twitter-2`) follows <<multi-index,multiple index names>> and wildcard format.


[[add-new-field-to-object]]
===== Add new properties to an existing object field

You can use the put mapping API
to add new properties
to an existing <<object,`object`>> field.
To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `name` object field
and an inner `first` text field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "name": {
        "properties": {
          "first": {
            "type": "text"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API
to add a new inner `last` text field
to the `name` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "name": {
      "properties": {
        "last": {
          "type": "text"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "name" : {
          "properties" : {
            "first" : {
              "type" : "text"
            },
            "last" : {
              "type" : "text"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[add-multi-fields-existing-field-ex]]
===== Add multi-fields to an existing field

<<multi-fields,Multi-fields>>
let you index the same field
in different ways.
You can use the put mapping API
to update the `fields` mapping parameter
and enable multi-fields for an existing field.

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `city` <<text,text>> field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "city": {
        "type": "text"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

While text fields work well for full-text search,
<<keyword,keyword>> fields are not analyzed
and may work better for sorting or aggregations.

Use the put mapping API
to enable a multi-field for the `city` field.
This request adds the `city.raw` keyword multi-field,
which can be used for sorting.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "city": {
      "type": "text",
      "fields": {
        "raw": {
          "type": "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "city" : {
          "type" : "text",
          "fields" : {
            "raw" : {
              "type" : "keyword"
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[change-existing-mapping-parms]]
===== Change supported mapping parameters for an existing field

The documentation for each <<mapping-params,mapping parameter>>
indicates whether you can update it
for an existing field
using the put mapping API.
For example,
you can use the put mapping API
to update the <<ignore-above,`ignore_above`>> parameter.

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API to create an index
containing a `user_id` keyword field.
The `user_id` field
has an `ignore_above` parameter value
of `20`.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "keyword",
        "ignore_above": 20
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API
to change the `ignore_above` parameter value
to `100`.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "user_id": {
      "type": "keyword",
      "ignore_above": 100
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "user_id" : {
          "type" : "keyword",
          "ignore_above" : 100
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----


[[updating-field-mappings]]
===== Change the mapping of an existing field

// tag::change-field-mapping[]
Except for supported <<mapping-params,mapping parameters>>,
you can't change the mapping or field type of an existing field.
Changing an existing field could invalidate data that's already indexed.

If you need to change the mapping of a field,
create a new index with the correct mapping
and <<docs-reindex,reindex>> your data into that index.
// end::change-field-mapping[]

To see how this works,
try the following example.

Use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create the `users` index
with the `user_id` field
with the <<number,`long`>> field type.

[source,console]
----
PUT /users
{
  "mappings" : {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "long"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the <<docs-index_,index>> API
to index several documents
with `user_id` field values.

[source,console]
----
POST /users/_doc?refresh=wait_for
{
    "user_id" : 12345
}

POST /users/_doc?refresh=wait_for
{
    "user_id" : 12346
}
----
// TEST[continued]

To change the `user_id` field
to the <<keyword,`keyword`>> field type,
use the create index API
to create the `new_users` index with the correct mapping.

[source,console]
----
PUT /new_users
{
  "mappings" : {
    "properties": {
      "user_id": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<docs-reindex,reindex>> API
to copy documents from the `users` index
to the `new_users` index.

[source,console]
----
POST /_reindex
{
  "source": {
    "index": "users"
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "new_users"
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "took": 147,
  "timed_out": false,
  "total": 2,
  "updated": 0,
  "created": 2,
  "deleted": 0,
  "batches": 1,
  "version_conflicts": 0,
  "noops": 0,
  "retries": {
    "bulk": 0,
    "search": 0
  },
  "throttled_millis": 0,
  "requests_per_second": -1.0,
  "throttled_until_millis": 0,
  "failures" : [ ]
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 147/"took": "$body.took"/]


[[rename-existing-field]]
===== Rename a field

// tag::rename-field[]
Renaming a field would invalidate data already indexed under the old field name.
Instead, add an <<alias, `alias`>> field to create an alternate field name.
// end::rename-field[]

For example,
use the <<indices-create-index,create index>> API
to create an index
with the `user_identifier` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "user_identifier": {
        "type": "keyword"
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Use the put mapping API to add the `user_id` field alias
for the existing `user_identifier` field.

[source,console]
----
PUT /my_index/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "user_id": {
      "type": "alias",
      "path": "user_identifier"
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[continued]

Use the <<indices-get-mapping,get mapping>> API
to verify your changes.

[source,console]
----
GET /my_index/_mapping
----
// TEST[continued]

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
----
{
  "my_index" : {
    "mappings" : {
      "properties" : {
        "user_id" : {
          "type" : "alias",
          "path" : "user_identifier"
        },
        "user_identifier" : {
          "type" : "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
